Deloitte testing interview question

Round 1: (Technical)

1. Explain about yourself and your roles and responsibilities.

2. Write Java code to reverse a string while preserving the whitespace.

3. Given an SQL table, find the second-largest salary of an employee.
select max(salary) from employee where salary<(select max(salary) from employee)

4. Explain the concept of joins and list the different types of joins available.
joins will be used to connect between two tabled based on common condition to fetch the records from databse inner join, leftouter join right outer join
inner join joins the table based on the matching columns
left outer join will be used to left table of all rows and right table of matching records if right table data is not there then null values
select clients left outer join clientadditionaldetails on clients.hha=.hha
right outer join
self join

5. What is LinkedHashMap? Explain its use.
linked hasmap is also used to store the values in key value formate here it reserve the inserstion order here it will order of the key values will be saved
it allows one null key and multiple null values. it wllos duplicate values but not keys


6. Explain black-box testing and white-box testing.
white box testing we usually verify the code is working fine or not by giving the input and out put and here it will be verified accoding to the 
code that the dev has written

in the white box testing usally done to verify the functionality of an application accoding to the requirment here it involves smoke,unctional,integration,
regression testing performance testing etc


7. What is the difference between an exception and an error?
exception is an even happens during the program excecution that terminates the further executin of the program
filenot found exception,null pointer exception, no such element,element not inteceptable, stale element
error are like the if any issue happs for server then we will get the internal server error
internal server error,out of memory error


8. Difference between findElement and findElements.
find elemet will locate the specific element where as in findelements will locate multiple webelements here we need to store it inot the list collection to 
process further
in the find element we can perform action directly on the element like click,sendkeys etc
but in the mulitple weemenbt we need to iterate thoru the loop then for the required element we can perform the action


9. What is the difference between implicit wait and explicit wait?
waits in selenium is used to over come the syncronisation issue here implicit wait is used t wait the elements for the mentioned times if it finds withing
the time then it will continue else it will thow exception it is universally applicable to the code we have written
in the explicit wait it will be applied to the specifi web element to wait for some time it will be applicable only for that pericular web element

10. Write Selenium code to automate a calendar WebElement.

11.How would you fetch the text from a text box in Selenium?
there is a method in the selenium called weblement.getattribute("value")

12.How do you enter text in an alert using Selenium?
when we are delealing with alrets we need to swit it to the alert then we need to send the values using send keys method
driver.switchto.alert.senkeyys.accept

13. What is the difference between checked and unchecked exceptions?
exceptons are the unexpected even that happens during the program execution which will terminate the program execution if we donot handle them
there are two kinds of exceptions checked exception are the exceptions which are identified by the javacomplier ioe,filenotfound exception,
unchecked exceptions are the exceptions which java complier will not identiy it while exceuting the program it will thor the exception
ex:arrayindex out of bound,null pointer
we can handle exception using try catch block try will exceute and catch wil exceute only if there is an exception otherwise no we can write multiple catch blocks
finally block here we can add to close the connection it will mandatorily exceecute,  only one finally block

14.If an XPath selects two elements on a webpage, does findElement throw an exception?
it wont throw the exeption instead it will perform the action on the first element

15. Explain smoke testing and sanity testing.
smoke testing will be carried to check the basic and critcal functionalites are working fine or not here we will only check the critical feature to makesure the 
feature is available in our cuurent project when ever we move our changes from one site to another site beofre doing the detail testing we will check the c
critical features if theose are not working then report it back to dev team
sanity testing will be performed after the bugfixes to check that specific functionality is working fine or not
here we will only check the fixed issue and the related functionalities

16. What are relative locators in Selenium?
relative locators are introduced in selenium it allows finding elements based on their position relative to other elements.
if there is a element called email if i want to locate password using the email we coud do that relative locator with.by.tag name(input=text).below he element()
WebElement element = driver.findElement(RelativeLocator.with(By.tagName("tagname")).above(referenceElement));


17. Explain the challenges you faced in your project.
Handling Dynamic Elements in UI Automation
Web elements often have dynamic attributes (IDs, classes, or XPaths) that change upon page refresh.
Used dynamic XPath and CSS selectors instead of absolute locators and waiting statergies

Managing Large Test Data & Environment Issues
Different test cases required different test data, leading to data inconsistency and failures.
Running tests on multiple environments (DEV, QA, STAGING) was difficult.
Used Data-Driven Testing with Excel (Apache POI), JSON, and DB queries.

API & Database Testing Challenges
Ensuring data consistency across UI, API, and Database was challenging.
Sometimes, API responses were delayed, causing failures in integration tests.
Implemented API Testing with REST Assured to validate API responses independently

Continuous Integration (CI/CD) Challenges
Automated test cases were failing in Jenkins pipeline due to environmental differences.
Developers pushed code before testing, breaking the build.
Integrated Selenium, TestNG, and Cucumber tests into Jenkins/GitHub Actions.
Used Docker to ensure consistency between local and CI environments.


18. How would you pick test cases for regression testing?
it will be done to check the existing functionality when new feature are intraduced into the projects
we identified most common automatable testcases for that perticluar page 
Core functionalities (Login, Payments, User Registration)
Frequently used features (Search, Cart, Checkout)
Critical bug fixes (Validate that past defects don’t reappear)
Integration points (API calls, DB connections, third-party services)





Round 2: (Techno-Managerial)

1. Explain your framework in detail.

2. In your framework, if you have 100 pages, do you create 100 Page Objects?

3. What is an "Element click intercepted" exception, and how do you fix it?

4. How do you take screenshots for failed test cases only in TestNG?

5. Explain how to connect your test cases with Azure.

6. What is the get fetch command?

7. In Postman, how do you delete a variable after test execution is finished?

8. Why do you prefer using Cucumber BDD in your project?

9. Explain dynamic binding and static binding.

10. What is method overloading, and what is method overriding?

11. What is the difference between Comparable and Comparator?

12.How would you conclude that a login page is user-friendly?

13. What are 5 points you consider when writing a good test case?

14. Suppose a developer is not fixing a bug; how would you approach the situation?

15. What are threads in JMeter?

16. Can you automate captchas?

17.In what cases would you require fluent waits?

18.In Selenium, how would you open a new tab?

19.In Jenkins, what is the purpose of a CRON expression?